Before we get our hands dirty and start with implementing our first SOAP service, we would try and
understand the differences between REST and SOAP.
Actually as we discussed earlier this is not apples to apples comparison because SOPA is an format of
XML whereas REST is actually an architectural style.
Let's talk about the data exchange format. In SOAP the data exchange format is always XML that too specifically
the SOAP XML with SOAP envelope header and body. Both your request and response should adhere to the SOAP
Structure. In REST
there is no strict date exchange format.
You can exchange a XML, a JSON or any other format you would want use.
However, JSON is the most popular data exchange format in REST. As far as the service definitions are
concerned SOAP uses WSDL. Web service definition language.
REST does not have a standard definition language.
While WADL is one of the standards. Web application definition language. However, its not really popularly
Used. In this course,
we are going to use one of the popular definitions for RESTful web services - Swagger.
As far as the transport protocol is concerned SOAP does not pose any restrictions at all.
You can use web that is HTTP or you can use MQ.
REST is very specific about making the best use of HTTP protocol. RESTful services are typically
more easier to implement than SOAP.
RESTful services are typically based on JSON which is an easy format to pass and do things with it
and also with RESTful services.
we don't really need to mandate really define a service definition. But with SOAP you have to define WSDL and there
are a lot of complexities associated with parsing your XMLs as well.
These are some of the differences between REST and SOAP. This marks the end of our theory sessions on web services.
Until the next video, bye-bye.